[AKIRA gasps]
[YUI] Here's your bed,
bathtub, and light.
Everything you said you wanted.
I believe that covers it all?
Uh. And what... is that?
It's Inugami and
those other two.
They said you were friends.
It appears they came
here to get you,
but I can't very
well let you leave.
--[AKIRA gasps]
--So, I froze them.
Akira?
[AKIRA]
But why... would you?
[gags]
[YUI]
Are you not feeling well?
I'll go see if I can find
any mint in the woods.
[NII-SAN]
Akira.
Yui's life signs have now
moved some distance away.
Is it all right if I resume
speaking at normal volume?
[AKIRA]
They're dead.
He killed them.
And they're all dead!
We finally found each other
and Yui does this?
Why?
It's not true! It can't be!
[NII-SAN] Correct.
Everyone is still alive.
[AKIRA gasps]
♪
They're not dead?
[gasps]
That's right!
I forgot, Kabane doesn't die!
Oh my gosh! I am such a dummy!
But, wait. What about
Inugami and Shiki?
[NII-SAN] I don't know how,
but they have been preserved
with their body
temperatures intact.
[AKIRA] Oh! I bet it's one of
Inugami's transformations!
I'm not sure how it works,
but I guess that's how
Shiki's alive, too?
They're so amazing!
Hold on. They will die if
they remain frozen, right?
Nii- san ! Is there anyway
I can melt this ice quickly?
[NII-SAN]
Yes, there is.
[YUI] Several years after we
promised we'd escape together,
they made me the chief
of the snowy village.
[YUI]
Why was I chosen to be chief,
instead of Akira?
It wasn't long before
I understood
their thought process.
[door opens, closes]
[AKIRA grunts]
You're back pretty late tonight.
What happened?
Were your chiefly duties
really hard or something?
What are they?
I would love to help out!
Then you'll finish
in half the time!
[chuckles]
It'd be too much for you, Akira.
Huh?
There's a ton of reading
involved, and using your head.
Not your forte.
Hey, that's mean!
[YUI]
Can you tell me I'm wrong?
[AKIRA]
No...
Anyway, look! I got
a present for you.
Neat, huh? I found a tree
today with these blossoms.
Isn't it unusual?
They say it's called a sasanqua.
Congrats on becoming
the new chief!
[gasps]
You say it's for me, but I can
tell that you really wanted
to keep the flower for yourself.
Shut up, that's not true!
[YUI, AKIRA chuckle]
[YUI] Once I became chief, I
learned all sorts of new things.
Such as, enshrined deep
inside the village was
a powerful object called
the "nullstone".
And the perpetual
snowstorm was its doing.
[gasps]
[YUI] That shrine was a
peaceful place to be.
[YUI] The hunting was carried
out by the women.
There may only be 200 of them,
but when they're all together,
distinctions like who's
more talented or stronger
become clear.
And should the strong make
a point of showing off
their might, the weak would
show off their resentment.
[YUKI-ONNA A]
Yui!
Have you ever gotten a look
under Hisame's facecloth?
Which one of us is prettier?
Me or her?
[YUI] I don't know the
origins of the practice,
but the inconvenient facecloths
worn by the Yuki-onna were to
prevent a subconscious pecking
order based on their appearance.
[YUI] Every day, I was pelted
by those women's curses.
Envy. Jealousy.
Contempt. Derision.
The entirety of my body
was corrupted by them,
I was a tainted mass.
All that was left of me
was the feelings of
hatred and animosity.
Oh. Welcome back.
[YUI]
Sorry, did I wake you?
No, I'm up. I try to stay awake,
since we only get to talk
right before bed these days.
Oh, those are...
[YUI]
Yeah.
Thanks a lot.
[AKIRA]
Mm-hm!
[YUI] Akira always
pulled me back, though.
He alone was my one salvation.
Salt, huh?
Yeah!
When you put it in your bath, it
makes your skin feel all smooth.
I wish I had some.
[YUI] So, salt and water, right?
You got it.
Oh, thank you!
[AKIRA] Good. Yui's acting
weird for sure,
but he'll still do
anything I say.
I hate to take
advantage of that,
but he hasn't given
me much choice.
[YUI]
Are you feeling better now?
Uh?
Oh, um. Mm-hmm.
I'm doing all right.
[YUI]
Yeah? I'm glad.
[gasps]
Yui, why?
You smashed my smartphone,
locked me up,
and froze my friends.
It's crazy.
It seems obvious now that
I've been super naive.
There's plenty
I don't understand,
but I have a strong feeling I'm
the only one who can stop you.
I've got to save the others.
Me.
[INARI]
Wow!
Up close, this is
really something else!
[NOBIMARU] I don't even
see any water around.
The nullstone's power
is astonishing.
A yuki-onna or yuki-onoko
would need plenty of
natural resources to create
something like this.
Where as the nullstone is
powered by life itself.
That makes sense, seeing as
there isn't a single blade
of grass left around the castle.
Now then, where is
that foolish tanuki?
What do I do?
I can't bear just waiting
around for Yui to come back.
Maybe I should rub
them with a towel.
[NII-SAN] I don't believe you
have the capacity to melt
this degree of
freezing by yourself.
[AKIRA yells]
I hate this!
[NII-SAN]
Please relax, Akira.
[gasps]
What the...?
Uh, Kabane?
[AKIRA yells]
[KABANE grunts]
[exhales]
I can finally move.
[AKIRA] That's great and all but
where the heck are your pants?
[AKIRA] Huh. The nullstone?
What is that?
Inugami had mentioned it.
S'posed to be from
the snowy village.
Wait a minute.
Now that I think about it,
our village had a snowstorm
barrier to keep humans out.
The women said it was powered
by some kinda stone.
Interesting. That must be it.
[AKIRA sighs] I feel like
there was something else
about it, too. Like, uh...
[KABANE]
Try to remember.
If we don't do something
about this "nullstone",
I can't beat that guy.
What do you mean?
Kabane, are you planning
to fight my brother?
So then it's true. That man
really is your brother.
We wanted to take you back home,
but he froze us when
I explained that.
I'll persuade him
however I have to.
[AKIRA] No! No way!
He can't do that!
If they get put on ice again,
they'll be killed for sure.
Plus, the way he is now,
I'm not convinced that even
I could persuade my brother.
Sorry about this morning,
by the way.
I'd never thought about the fact
that for some, "being useful,"
can apply to things
other than just work.
Without you around,
we don't talk as much,
and I constantly
make Shiki angry.
[KABANE]
Akira. Will you come home?
I just... like the office
better with you there.
I want you to come back,
and I think Shiki probably
feels the same way.
[AKIRA] You never change,
do you, Kabane?
What do you mean?
[AKIRA] You don't even
know who I am, do you?
Man, are you slow.
[gasps]
[AKIRA] I'm the one who asked
Yui to deal with you guys, okay?
It was me.
[NII-SAN]
Akira...
[AKIRA] And I don't need
this plushie anymore!
I don't remember asking
you to come get me.
Why would I want to go with you
when I could finally live
a quiet life with Yui?
Mind your business.
I don't get it.
Why are you lying?
You would never
say stuff like that.
Is there some reason your
not being honest with me?
[AKIRA]
I am being honest.
In fact, it's how I've always
felt about you people.
[KABANE]
That's not true.
[AKIRA]
Let me make it clear.
[KABANE]
Akira!
I hate you!
[AKIRA]
Aw, what's with that face?
Did you think I was
in here crying?
[KABANE gasps]
Does it look like
I'm lying to you?
Uh, it doesn't. Not really.
Oh, you're back!
[gasps]
No! Stop it!
Get away from him.
You can no longer tell
the difference between what's
pure and what's filthy.
[AKIRA]
That's ridiculous.
Do you honestly believe I
care what happens to them?
[KABANE gasps]
[AKIRA]
Forget about these people.
I'm already tired
of this castle.
I wanna move! Right now!
Okay. We can
prioritize that, then.
[AKIRA] This time, let's get a
place with a view of the ocean!
Oh, I don't need
that salt anymore.
You can just leave it here.
[KABANE]
Akira!
[AKIRA whimpers]
[AKIRA] Thank goodness
I'm a yuki-onoko.
Tears are made
of water, after all.
Bye-bye, Kabane.
--[door closes]
--[KABANE gasps]
[YUI]
Hm? Something wrong, Akira?
Uh, no. I'm okay.
My mind was just elsewhere.
You need to stay close to me.
It's dangerous.
You got it!
[AKIRA]
I hope everything's okay.
The rest is up to you, Nii- san .
--[NII-SAN] Pardon, sir.
--[KABANE gasps]
[NII-SAN]
Hello? I need a favor.
Would you mind finishing
Akira's uncompleted tasks?
[KABANE grunts]
[NII-SAN] Next, stuff me
someplace where I can be
held tightly and securely.
[KABANE]
Kay.
[NII-SAN] Squeeze.
My overall make-up is
four percent mechanical,
so I can contribute a
small degree of heat.
Makes sense. Pretty helpful.
[inaudible]
[INARI]
My, my...
Poor baby, you seem so down.
What's wrong?
[KABANE]
Inari?
Long time no see!
When'd you get here?
[INARI]
Aw, are you wary of me?
I'm not after your
lifestone this time.
I've come to retrieve
the nullstone
and you're gonna help me.
[gasps]
[KABANE]
No. I'm sorry. I--
This isn't about Akira's
family problems.
Honestly, the reason I'm
suggesting it is for your sake.
After all, the nullstone happens
to be more than a little
connected to your parents.
Piques your interest, huh?
[AKIRA] It's been a long
time since the two of us
have taken a stroll
together like this.
[YUI]
Mmm.
[AKIRA]
Hey, guess what?
They haven't been getting
as mad at me lately
when I leave the snowstorm.
But without you around,
it's kinda scary.
[YUI]
Yeah?
[AKIRA]
Can I ask you a question?
[AKIRA] Are the chief's
duties really hard?
[YUI]
Why?
Because! You always look
so gloomy these days!
I wanna help you!
Let me do something!
I can't stand
watching you struggle!
I mean, we're twins!
[YUI] But even twins
have different things
they're good at.
I am strong, and you
never have been.
So let me do this.
I can handle the tough,
painful stuff.
--You don't have to do anything.
--But I--
[YUI] Besides, you have
your own specialty, right?
Huh? What is it?
I'm not sure I d--
Smiling, of course.
And it's beautiful.
Because you're so pure of heart.
You're my salvation.
I'll always keep you safe.
I don't want you
to become tainted.
[whimpers]
[YUI]
What's wrong?
I'm sorry.
I already am, I'm filthy!
[YUI]
What?
[AKIRA] It's yucky but
this morning... I wet the bed!
I got rid of the evidence,
so the women didn't find out.
But I'm 14, it's embarrassing!
Oh, is that all?
You really are a
pure one, aren't you?
You good?
[YUI] Akira. Listen to me,
are you sure it was pee?
[YUI] Akira had become eligible
to serve as chief too.
If the women found out,
I knew what would happen next.
They'd fight tooth and
nail to get to him,
looking to climb
the social ladder.
[YUI]
Assemble all the women at once!
Make sure Akira doesn't see you!
[YUI]
There were over 200 women.
If even one became aware of the
change in Akira, it was over.
[HISAME] Yui, why have you
gathered all of us like this?
[YUI] That first night, when I
lied to Akira about my duties.
That was the moment we
split from being twins,
to being individuals.
If the truth I just
learned came out,
and Akira became tainted,
like me,
maybe we could become one again.
After all, together we could
handle what one of us could not.
[YUI]
But... I....
[YUI] I will do everything in my
power to completely satisfy
every last one of you. I swear!
On one condition.
You'll let Akira
leave the village!
If you say no,
then I'll kill myself!
[YUKI-ONNA gasp]
[HISAME] Ha! Utterly ridiculous.
Go ahead and off yourself.
Once you're gone, Akira will be
crowned chief in your stead.
[YUI]
You're the one being ridiculous.
[HISAME]
Oh?
[YUI] Do you truly believe
Akira is fit for such a task?
How naïve.
Go ahead and test me.
The fate of the village'll
be on you, though.
[YUKI-ONNA B] He's correct.
Akira lacks Yui's vitality.
He wouldn't last until the
next yuki-onoko is born.
Without Yui, our entire
village would perish.
[HISAME]
Very well.
In consideration
of your resolve,
we shall disregard
Akira's departure.
[YUI]
Listen carefully.
Tokyo. Kemonoist. Inugami.
Remember those words,
and just keep heading south.
I'll be there right behind you.
We'll meet in Tokyo.
[YUI] That should've
been the end of it.
Or at least I thought.
[YUKI-ONNA B]
I feel sorry for Yui.
[YUKI-ONNA C]
He believes us, though, right?
[YUKI-ONNA B]
Somehow.
Allowing a yuki-onoko to leave
was out of the question.
Obviously, we sent
someone after him.
[YUKI-ONNA C]
It's been a year.
Akira is either a
weather-beaten corpse,
or been consigned to
the earth as boar fodder.
[YUI gasps]
Hisame!
Damn you! How dare you
do something like--
[HISAME]
Hold him still,
and make sure he can't
bite his tongue.
[YUKI-ONNA B]
Yes Ma'am!
[HISAME]
As for Akira.
I said we would
disregard his departure.
I never guaranteed
him a safe passage.
[grunts]
--[thudding]
--[YUKI-ONNA B groans]
[HISAME]
Don't let him escape! Get him!
[YUKI-ONNA C]
Hold it!
[YUI] It was a small world,
shut in by the snowstorm.
Merely repeating the
cycle of birth and death.
[YUI] Nothing could bloom
from the frozen earth.
A place without change.
This village was dead.
What's the matter? You good?
Something's coming.
[AKIRA gasps]
Wh-What is this? A cage?
[NOBIMARU]
Wow, how dramatic.
I came here to get Akira,
but I can't take him
hostage if he's in there.
It's Nobimaru!
What do you want from us?
Who are you to Akira?
[NOBIMARU]
A stranger.
[AKIRA]
Wait--no, I guess that's true.
[YUI]
I see.
Well, then. You should leave!
[NOBIMARU]
He's so fast!
If he'd hit me directly,
I'd be done for.
Flames, huh?
[NOBIMARU]
Yes!
I'm not sure if they'll work
against the nullstone,
so we'll have to see.
But tonight...
...I'll be going all out.
The boss is here, after all.
[INARI] The best description
of the nullstone is that
it's like the
lifestone's sibling.
If get my hands on it, then
someone might get to learn
a bit more about his
mommy and daddy.
You're serious, right?
Oh my, you don't trust me?
[KABANE] No. Tricking me
would be one thing,
but I'm not about to leave
Inugami and Shiki here alone.
[INUGAMI]
We're fine, Kabane. Go ahead.
[KABANE] Was that you
talking just now, Nii- San ?
[NII-SAN]
Correct.
I'm delivering a message
to you from Inugami.
It's based on his
heartbeat and brainwaves.
[INUGAMI]
Listen, Kabane.
Inari isn't gonna make
a move against us.
Or should I say, not this
second, she won't.
[INARI chuckles]
[INUGAMI] It'll take a little
longer for the ice to melt.
I'm counting on you
to save Akira.
Alright, understood.
I'll be back!
Wow, you seem awfully confident.
So you transformed the ice
instead of
transforming yourself.
One layer of thermal insulation,
and another layer of air.
It's basically a thermos, huh?
[INUGAMI]
Perceptive.
Could it be any
less efficient, though?
You've grown weaker, Inugami.
You've put way too much energy
into those useless brats.
[INUGAMI] Yeah, well,
it's not like strength
is my top priority.
Unlike some people.
[INARI]
Very funny.
Let me show you how to
actually use children.
[NOBIMARU] I'd like to avoid
any direct hits from the ice,
at least.
Let's start with...
...Disruption!
Look at all those Nobimarus!
Kitsune illusions! Pathetic!
[NOBIMARU CLONES groan]
[yelps]
They got skewered!
[NOBIMARU]
An unavoidable sacrifice.
[YUI] Multiply as much as you
like, you won't escape my ice!
[NOBIMARU CLONES groan]
[gasps]
♪